# Homelab

## January 2026
I bought a mini PC to play around with and practice/improve my GitOps chops in a personal setting. I'm not
entirely sure what all I intend to do with this, but it gives me a nice, low stakes environment to improve
my networking skills and try out some new tools. I didn't do a great job of writing down all the milestones
I accomplished thus far in setting up my "homelab", so here are the quick highlights from this month:
* Bootstrap k3s, argocd, cilium, and Gateway API on the server via Ansible
* Create root AppSet to manager other ArgoCD applications via Ansible
* Set up ksops. This was a bit of a pain due to some outdated [documentation](https://github.com/viaduct-ai/kustomize-sops?tab=readme-ov-file#argo-cd-integration-), but I managed to work through it. This suggestion was very helpful: https://github.com/viaduct-ai/kustomize-sops/issues/300#issue-3391087220
* Set up manickamx2.com domain
* Set up cert-manager application, issue certificates with letsencrypt
* "Expose" my ArgoCD deployment at argocd.manickamx2.com. This is still a work in progress; for now I am hacking around my router by adding an entry
to my /etc/hosts file. The certs generated by cert-manager are not an issue and it was nice to confirm that the cilium configuration + Gateway API working
nicely (although I was very confused about it for a while). I also got some help/ideas from an old co-worker @MYanello which is much appreciated. Once I properly expose my ArgoCD server and have a better understanding of what I was missing I will try to write a note/post of some sort

I'm probably missing some things but these are the main accomplishments, moving forward I will try to add to this log on a more regular cadence